content/blog/2015/08/thoughts-improving-load-resiliency-cms-driven-websites.md, before:

---
locale: en-CA
title: Thoughts about improving load resiliency for CMS driven Websites
canonical: https://renoirboulanger.com/blog/2015/08/thoughts-improving-load-resiliency-cms-driven-websites/
date: &createdAt '2015-08-12T20:55:06-04:00'
createdAt: *createdAt
categories:
  - Web Integration Review
tags:
  - vulgarization
  - development
keywords:
  - MDN
  - Mozilla
  - Django
  - Kuma
coverImage:
  src: ~/assets/content/blog/2015/08/2015-08-12-What-makes-a-page-unique-1024x921.png
  alt: |
    What makes a content site page unique from what an anonymous visitor can get?
  text: |
    When we think about it, except minor details such as the current user’s info, a web page is pretty much the same for everyone.
    There has to be a way to structure Front-End code to make a clear
    separation and leverage more caching.
    The case of Mozilla’s MDN is most certainly not the first one.
preamble:
  text: |
    This was written at the time I was collaborating with *Mozilla* on the MDN project
    on [a discussion about scaling the site][link-scale-mdn].
    It was related to a contract I was working on to help on Mozilla’s Compatibility tables,
    based on my [own research about **Compatibility Tables** for **WebPlatform Docs**][wpd-compatables].
    [wpd-compatables]: https://webplatform.github.io/docs/WPD/Projects/CompaTables/ "WebPlatform browser compatibility support table"
    [link-scale-mdn]: https://groups.google.com/d/msg/mozilla.dev.mdn/4_bFfpyvYMk/8c6S6cblZ4kJ "RE: Proposal to help scale MDN"
---

The following is an article I wrote based on a [note I sent to the Mozilla
Developer Network mailing list][0] about an idea that crossed my mind to help
scale a CMS driven website.

I'm convinced i am not the first one who came out with a similar idea, but I
thought it would be useful to share anyway.

## What's common on a CMS driven Website?

What affects the page load is what happens in the backend before getting HTML
back to the web browser. Sometimes its about converting the text stored in the
database back into HTML, making some specific views, and the list can go on and
on.

Problem is that we are spending a lot of CPU cycles to end up serving time and
time again the same content, unique for each user when about 90% the generated
content could be exactly the same for everybody.

with web apps is that we make backend servers generate HTML as if it was unique
when, in truth, most of it could be cached.

What if we could make a separation between what's common, and use caching and
serve it to everybody.

## How HTTP cache works, roughly

Regardless of what software does it: Squid, Varnish, NGINX, Zeus, caching is
done the same way.

In the end, the HTTP caching layer basically keeps in RAM generated HTTP
Response body and keeps in memory based on the headers it had when it passed it
through to the original request. Only GET Responses, _without cookies_, are
cacheable. Other response body coming from a \[PUT, DELETE, POST\] request
aren't.

To come back on my previous example, what part is unique in the the current user
compared to what the anonymous visitor gets on a documentation Website page.

What does a Website view serves us then? The content of the page, the "chrome"
(what's always there), Links to account settings, edit, or visualize details for
the current page, account settings, the username, link to logout.

It means we are making unique content for things that could be cached and
wasting cycles.

Even then, most of the content is cacheable because they would generally be with
the same paths in the CMS.

## How about we separate dynamic from static?

<app-image figcaption="An example of running a presentation only HTML partial serving specialized service." alt="Experimenting with Django/Kuma and making HTML Partial URLs" src="~/assets/content/blog/2015/10/2015-09-21-Running-MDN-and-BrowserCompat.png">

For example, we could make [**MDN**’s _BrowserCompat_ API][browsercompat-api]
where we could leverage to fill in compatibiliby table back into MDN. This
screenshot dates back from 2015.

</app-image>

This makes me wonder if we could improve site resiliency by leveraging HTTP
caching, strip off _any cookies_, and factor out what's unique on a page so that
we get the same output for any context.

As for the contextual parts of the site 'chrome', how about we expose a
context-root which would take care of serving dynamically generated HTML to use
as partials.

One way of doing it would be to make that context-root generate simple HTML
strings that we can pass to a JavaScript manager that'll convert it into DOM and
inject it in the 'chrome'.

Since we can make cookies to be isolated to specific context-roots, we can keep
the statefulness of the session on MDN and have a clear separation of what's
dynamic and what's not.

[0]: https://groups.google.com/d/msg/mozilla.dev.mdn/4_bFfpyvYMk/KkO0alAfAgAJ
[browsercompat-api]:
  https://github.com/mdn/browsercompat
  'The Browser Compatibility API was a project to support compatibility data on the Mozilla Developer Network. '

Commit message:

chore: 🤖 Refactor content/* pages with what would be otherwise lost notes

content/blog/2015/08/thoughts-improving-load-resiliency-cms-driven-websites.md, after:

---
title: Thoughts about improving load resiliency for CMS driven Websites
locale: en-CA
created: 2015-08-12
updated: 2023-02-18
canonical: >-
  https://renoirboulanger.com/blog/2015/08/thoughts-improving-load-resiliency-cms-driven-websites/
status: publish
revising: false
categories:
  - web-integration-review
tags:
  - vulgarization
  - development
keywords:
  - MDN
  - Mozilla
  - Django
  - Kuma
coverImage:
  src: ~/assets/content/blog/2015/08/2015-08-12-What-makes-a-page-unique-1024x921.png
  alt: |
    What makes a content site page unique from what an anonymous visitor can get?
  text: |
    When we think about it, except minor details such as the current user’s info, a web page is pretty much the same for everyone.
    There has to be a way to structure Front-End code to make a clear
    separation and leverage more caching.
    The case of Mozilla’s MDN is most certainly not the first one.
preamble:
  text: |
    This was written at the time I was collaborating with *Mozilla* on the MDN project
    on [a discussion about scaling the site][link-scale-mdn].
    It was related to a contract I was working on to help on Mozilla’s Compatibility tables,
    based on my [own research about **Compatibility Tables** for **WebPlatform Docs**][wpd-compatables].
    [wpd-compatables]: https://webplatform.github.io/docs/WPD/Projects/CompaTables/ "WebPlatform browser compatibility support table"
    [link-scale-mdn]: https://groups.google.com/d/msg/mozilla.dev.mdn/4_bFfpyvYMk/8c6S6cblZ4kJ "RE: Proposal to help scale MDN"
excerpt: >-
  How about we re-imagine how to serve content from a CMS and leverage HTTP
  caching? How could it be done?
---

The following is an article I wrote based on a [note I sent to the Mozilla
Developer Network mailing list][0] about an idea that crossed my mind to help
scale a CMS driven website.

I'm convinced i am not the first one who came out with a similar idea, but I
thought it would be useful to share anyway.

## What's common on a CMS driven Website?

What affects the page load is what happens in the backend before getting HTML
back to the web browser. Sometimes its about converting the text stored in the
database back into HTML, making some specific views, and the list can go on and
on.

Problem is that we are spending a lot of CPU cycles to end up serving time and
time again the same content, unique for each user when about 90% the generated
content could be exactly the same for everybody.

with web apps is that we make backend servers generate HTML as if it was unique
when, in truth, most of it could be cached.

What if we could make a separation between what's common, and use caching and
serve it to everybody.

## How HTTP cache works, roughly

Regardless of what software does it: Squid, Varnish, NGINX, Zeus, caching is
done the same way.

In the end, the HTTP caching layer basically keeps in RAM generated HTTP
Response body and keeps in memory based on the headers it had when it passed it
through to the original request. Only GET Responses, _without cookies_, are
cacheable. Other response body coming from a \[PUT, DELETE, POST\] request
aren't.

To come back on my previous example, what part is unique in the the current user
compared to what the anonymous visitor gets on a documentation Website page.

What does a Website view serves us then? The content of the page, the "chrome"
(what's always there), Links to account settings, edit, or visualize details for
the current page, account settings, the username, link to logout.

It means we are making unique content for things that could be cached and
wasting cycles.

Even then, most of the content is cacheable because they would generally be with
the same paths in the CMS.

## How about we separate dynamic from static?

<app-image figcaption="An example of running a presentation only HTML partial serving specialized service." alt="Experimenting with Django/Kuma and making HTML Partial URLs" src="~/assets/content/blog/2015/10/2015-09-21-Running-MDN-and-BrowserCompat.png">

For example, we could make [**MDN**’s _BrowserCompat_ API][browsercompat-api]
where we could leverage to fill in compatibiliby table back into MDN. This
screenshot dates back from 2015.

</app-image>

This makes me wonder if we could improve site resiliency by leveraging HTTP
caching, strip off _any cookies_, and factor out what's unique on a page so that
we get the same output for any context.

As for the contextual parts of the site 'chrome', how about we expose a
context-root which would take care of serving dynamically generated HTML to use
as partials.

One way of doing it would be to make that context-root generate simple HTML
strings that we can pass to a JavaScript manager that'll convert it into DOM and
inject it in the 'chrome'.

Since we can make cookies to be isolated to specific context-roots, we can keep
the statefulness of the session on MDN and have a clear separation of what's
dynamic and what's not.

[0]: https://groups.google.com/d/msg/mozilla.dev.mdn/4_bFfpyvYMk/KkO0alAfAgAJ
[browsercompat-api]:
  https://github.com/mdn/browsercompat
  'The Browser Compatibility API was a project to support compatibility data on the Mozilla Developer Network. '
