---
title:
  'devLAB Montreal is in the Community Partner Spotlight at Microsoft’s Make Web
  Not War 2010'
locale: en-CA
created: 2010-05-19
updated: 2013-03-27
canonical: >-
  https://renoirboulanger.com/blog/2010/05/article-publie-sur-devlab-community-partner-spotlight-devlab-montreal/
status: publish
revising: true
migrateLinks: false
migrateImages: false
gallery: false
categories:
  - events
tags:
  - web
  - windows
  - published
coverImage:
  src: ~/assets/content/blog/2010/04/mwnw_logo.png
  alt: Make Web Not War logo
  text: Logo of Make Web Not War event
excerpt: >-
  Microsoft Canada’s Make Web Not War initiative wanted to partner with local
  Montreal Web Developer community particularily ones that are proponent for
  open-source software
---

Microsoft Canada’s Make Web Not War partenered with devLAB Montréal for a
codefest. Learn about DevLAB's passion for technology and open source, and their
involvement in the MWNW 2010 event.

## Community Partner Spotlight: DevLAB Montreal

This year MWNW will be having a codefest portion co-hosted by the coolest geeks
in town, DevLab Montreal. The folks at devLab MTL are very passionate about new
technologies and Open Source, so we're thrilled to have them on board with Make
Web not War. We asked Renoir Boulanger, Co-Founder of DevLab MTL, a few
questions:

## What is devLab Montreal?

devLab Montreal is the natural movement toward the open-source community because
it first started as friends gathering together every week only to play with
technologies. Be it: Virtualization, Trying stuff with frameworks, Optimizing a
minimal Linux virtual machine or computer, playing with monitoring, and so on.
During the years, we talked about our gatherings and people got interested in
joining, so we started to get out with the Open-source community and meet people
that loves as much open source software as we do. Then it came naturally. When
we founded Evocatio, we HAD to put some structure in it and bring something
that's missing in the Montreal's events scene… something for us, geeks. devLab
is our way to give back to the community. We scheduled meetings through the next
year so we could teach and learn from each other. Each meeting will have a
theme. Stored procedures optimization with either MySQL or Microsoft SQL.
Database modeling and normalization. Bugwacking sessions on projects of our
choice.

## Why did you want to get involved with MWNW?

We want to get involved with MWNW because we have that passion to make things
work together. Be it OpenLDAP, Active Directory or Tivoli or a SOAP WebService
connecting to either MySQL or Microsoft SQL. In today technology landscape we
cannot ignore either side. People will want software that fits their needs and
as it happens many times Open source software have to work with Proprietary
software. We embrace Microsoft initiative to listen to what we have to say as
Open Source Enthusiasts.

Sign up for the codefest if you want to hack out some code with the devLab folks
at MWNW.
